And it will not return void.
And Lord, we invite you here today, because we know the Word doesn't return void.
Passages scripture such as this pretty lengthy in one way that will never be able to touch the depths of it.
But Lord, just as we read it at a surface level, how life-impacting it is, because it's a history of a nation
that still stands.
Four thousand years later, it's a testimony that God cannot be stopped.
And all we have to do is say, here I am, Lord.
Even when we're not even right place doing right things, we still saw your faithfulness through this chapter.
Put me away, Lord.
Put me aside.
Let your Word come alive.
have your way, I pray, in your name, amen.
We are in Genesis 49.
I try, my goal, do a whole chapter, therefore we take it up a level in many times.
And this will be what we'll do here today as well.
It's Jacob's last words, and there's a power in listening to the last words of someone who's knowing his time has come.
And this is amazing.
And again, let's just read verse one and two and get into it.
We're going to look at 12 sons.
It's almost, we won't make it a 12 point message, but every one of these sons have an amazing point that's made as God divinely laid this out, verse one and two.
And Jacob called his sons and said, gather together, that I might tell you what shall befall you in the last days.
When we read last days, it's almost always meaning the latter days.
And we did our prophecy update last week and we just see how much all these points are coming together that we are.
I mean, we have to be the generation of the last last days of spoken.
But you know, there is something that I always say.
I was just talking to a friend of mine, started the ministry 28 years ago and it's called Pennsylvania United Medical Association, Puma.
He's been doing it for 28 years.
Mary spent 15 years there in the Paul, serving there.
That's where I was just a couple weeks ago, four or two weeks.
And we were talking about the future of the ministry and just the impact that the ministry has made.
And now I'm totally digressing, but Mary, I kept meeting young adults over and over.
In their late 20s and 30s, they were babies when you took them in as orphans there in the ball.
And here they are still walking with the Lord.
Here they are still coming up.
Here they are still.
telling me their stories.
And I would say, you know, Mary, and they'd get this big smile on their face and these type of things.
And just the fruit that remains.
And that kind of goes to the Good News Club, the fruit that remains through these type of ministries.
But you know, life happens as Jacob
comes to his years and so we all as we age and so I was talking to the leaders named Steve and he's like well you know I can't do this forever and as we talked about those things and I go well I'll say this you're an iron man and I know you still got ten good years left in you and he immediately says there's no way that we will still be here in ten years because
Lord is surely coming back well before that period of time.
And I said, amen to that.
But then I said, but you know what?
He is so gracious.
He wishes that none should perish, that all should seek repentance.
He would let the madness of this world
as we look at it and see the heartaches and the heartbreaks that are happening worldwide in our nation across the ocean in war zones and all these type of things.
And I go, he's that gracious that he would teary for 10 more years.
Because that's his whole heart, his wishes that none should perish, that all should seek repentance.
But here we are in verse one, and speaking of the last days, and some of the things I'm going to talk about are prophetic pictures to the days of Jesus, and then they even weave into the prophetic pictures that we read through the book of Revelation.
And verse two says, gather together and hear you sons of Jacob.
and listen to Israel, your father.
There is Jacob, old name, Israel, new name governed by God.
And here he is, the old man, making a point and we'll see how he weaves it together.
I was once this man who
I'm not going to review my history, but I'm now this new man that God has taken hold of and grabbed my heart and changed me that I'm now governed by God and an amazing picture here.
And here he is, given his name as Israel.
This was written and all the historical facts back this up.
This was written close to 2000 BC.
That makes this
reading that we have.
We're reading something that's 4,000 years old.
Moses, it would have been passed down orally until the time of Moses after the Egypt that he would have put this, the pen, and then it would have made it into the ink and passing.
So 1,500 years since it's 1,500 BC roughly.
But we're talking something that we're reading that is 4,000 years old in story.
something that we see here, 2000 years after literally the destruction of the temple and the nation of Israel, 70 AD when Titus came in and destroyed it and dispersed them.
And here this nation is.
And if you get only one thing from what I'm saying today, because this is what's power to me,
If you want to know if the Bible's true, I'll give you one word why it's true, and the word is Israel.
No one has ever survived longer than 200 years without a homeland.
That nation survived 2,000 years without a homeland.
After they were dispersed in AD 70, Titus Roman Legion historically proven infactual
May 14th, 1948, can a nation be born in the day?
Just as it says in the Scripture, they were.
And here they are surrounded by 300 million enemies.
They have the land, the size of New Jersey.
They have one sixth of one percent of the land of the Middle East.
October 7th, we saw what we saw, and they still stand.
Everything that Jacob says in this prophecy
will come the past, has come the past.
And if I look at one thing and I say one thing, I'll never have to doubt that this Bible is written outside of this time domain because I look at Israel and go, it's impossible for them to still stand.
And we always say, he who began a good work will be faithful to complete it, Philippians 1, 6.
And if I believe that as true about Israel,
and I am as equally in God's eyes as Israel because that's what he calls us his children.
Then I can be sure this, Lord, you're going to finish what you started in me.
This will come to pass.
And just as you fulfilled everything in Jacob and his 12 boys, you'll do the same for me.
So what we're going to read here, these sons, it's in no order.
The notes are
Posted here.
So all these things all these cross-reference everything I put up is already in the notes if you want to grab hold of those notes, but we're gonna look at 12 boys through four wives leah Handmaiden Zilpha Rachel and handmaiden Bill hot just to remember and then here's what we're reading is it not in chronological order and they're
obviously is a reason, probably not one that I know and understand, but first up for us is verse three and four.
He's gonna talk about Reuben, who is the oldest, first born.
Verse three says, Reuben, you are my first born, my might and the beginning of my strength, the excellency of dignity and the excellency of power.
And then he goes on, Jacob's just gonna call it for what it is.
And I thank God
He's going to point out some hard things and some people go, this is a little uncomfortable to talk about it on a Sunday morning or in a church service, but I'm so thankful that the Lord just speaks honestly to me and doesn't hide the facts about me or someone else as he speaks these things.
And verse four, he says, unstable is water.
Hey, Ruben, stand in here.
He's probably 60.
He's standing here.
You know, here comes the blessing and he has to
Face what's been put before him.
You shall not excel because you went up to your father's bed.
Then you defiled it.
He went up to my couch.
That word there, unstable as water.
That means boiling water.
It means the bubble over.
So here he is, it bubbles over.
It's talking about an emotion that he didn't control.
And it got control of him.
The story that's being spoken of here is back in Genesis 35 as we studied it.
And he went to Bilhah, his Rachel's handmaiden, which was
Jacob's wife, one of the four wives, and Jacob is simply saying to him, all the potential that you had.
You squandered it all.
You were first born.
You had all the potential in the world.
You had everything given to you to excel and to exceed, but you didn't because you bubbled over and the raw emotions took
control over you rather than sitting and letting the hand of the Lord be upon you.
And we see pictures through all of them.
And here we see Galatians do not be deceived, be deceived, whatever a man sows that show he reaps.
And you know that comes across so often as negative.
And it can be.
But you know the beauty of it is it's power as well.
If I choose to sow that which is good.
If I choose the so, that which is spiritual, God gives a promise in the law of reaping and sowing, you rape spiritual things, you will just prosper, you'll have a bounty, you'll have a harvest of these things.
And so here God speaks, you had potential, sin robbed it.
And what can I say about that is for us, we're gonna see grace.
God forgives.
But just a word, this is what we do here.
Sin does.
God forgives and forgets.
Sin never forgets and never forgives.
And so there's a place that God's gonna give forgiveness, but then there's a reaping and sowing and I just speak to anyone.
If you're sitting here today and maybe you're in the decision point of life, God will forgive you.
God has forgiven you.
But there's a time that you need to separate that and know, well now what I'm encountering is because I chose to enter into that which I should know.
And so here we see, and just as we look at the history of Reuben, no leader came out of his tribe and he got no land.
When they came into the Promised Land, they stayed on the east side
of Jordan, remember?
And they didn't even come into the Promised Land after the Egypt and the wilderness wandering.
Well, verse 5 through 7, Simeon and Levi are grouped together.
Simeon and Levi are brothers, instruments of cruelty and are in their dwelling place.
So just Simeon and Levi, just like Ruben, things you did all these years ago, you thought
You know, you got away with it here.
God's bringing it to the remembrance so that you can do something about it, like repent.
Well, verse six says, let not my soul enter their counsel.
Let not my honor be united to their assembly.
For in their anger, they slew a man and then their self will, they hamstrung an ox.
cursed be their anger for it is fierce and their wrath for it is cruel.
I will divide them in Jacob and scatter them in Israel.
No leader's gonna come out of them.
We're gonna see this.
We're gonna, well, I take that back.
Simeon, no leader's gonna come.
I'll build on some of this here in a second.
But he's going back to Genesis 34.
Their sister was,
raped, they went in, they took care of the men of Shechem, and they killed all of them.
We studied that story.
You know that story.
But what Jacob is saying here is that it was a work of the flesh.
It was not what I called you to do.
You didn't ask me about the Lord didn't come and give you the word on those things.
And so like the Reuben example,
Boiling over emotions got hold of him.
Well, here's Simeon and Levi when you Look at these guys and then you come to Ephesians 4 26 be angry do not sin do not let the Sun go down on your wrath nor give place to the devil I Won't take a show of hands because I'm probably the only one that has any bout of
of dealing and facing the anger that rises up within all of us.
And then God says, that anger that rises, that's just part of being what's built into you.
But here's the part of it, be angry, but do not sin.
There's certain things, you know what anger is?
And then we'll move on.
Anger is always the fear of losing something.
Behind all anger is fear.
And the fear is, I'm going to lose something.
I'm going to lose respect.
I'm going to lose control.
Someone's going to disrespect me.
And we all have to look at it and go, why am I angry?
What is it that I fear?
So then I can simply come and go, Lord, I don't let me get into the work of the flesh.
Let me just sit and
say, I need to trust you.
How would you have me to respond?
And this is Simeon Levi.
They didn't seek the Lord when they responded to what they did in so-called justice.
They overcompensated.
They didn't go after the guilty one.
They went after the whole nation and they overcompensated that justice they were trying to serve.
But you know, I think there's a place in relationships
When someone rises up in anger, maybe it's in a marriage, maybe it's in your workplace, maybe it's just a family around the dinner tables coming up, and you go, why are they angry?
What is it that they fear?
And then you have this whole thing that you can try to dispel the
Fusion that's happening there and the fuel that's coming that you can calm the the moment and maybe even just say you don't need to fear Listen and then you have this opportunity So here we come to Judah verse 8 through 12 Judah you are he whom your brother shall praise and
Your hand shall be on the neck of your enemies.
Your father's children shall bow down before you.
Judah is a lion's welp.
From the prey, my son, you have gone up.
He bows down.
He lies down as a lion.
And as a lion who shall rouse him, the scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor a law giver from between his feet until Shiloh comes.
And to him shall be the obedience of the people.
Verse 11, binding his donkey to the vine and his donkey's colt to the choice vine, he washed his garments and wine and his clothes in the blood of grapes,
eyes are darker than wine and his teeth whiter than milk.
This is amazing to me in that he's dying.
He's at the end.
He's 147 years old and yet he's prophesying.
He's not going necessarily backwards like he did with the others.
He's going forward and God's giving him a prophetic word of the future to come.
And I just find that what a place, you know, the older you get, you can still have that
place where you get to prophesy about a future.
And I think there's something, you know, even as we're talking like the Good News Club, you get to speak of prophecy to these children.
You get to do it here in the children's ministry.
You get to do it in your home and you can prophesy.
Listen, God has great things for you.
God is going to do great things.
for you because God's favor is upon you.
The word of the Lord will lead you and guide you and all these things.
And I just look at Jacob and go, you know what?
And regardless of your age, but maybe you're in the latter years of your, man, we still have this glory that we can speak prophecy.
We get to speak the word of the Lord.
And all prophecy is foretelling the word of God.
Yeah, there's prophecy that speaks something prophetic upon a person's life, like, you know, such and such.
is gonna be your future, but there's just a prophecy of that all of us get to speak.
The Lord's hand is upon you.
The Lord wants to do great and awesome things in your life.
Beautiful word here.
Well, here's what we, Judah means praise.
And here we have the ultimate prophetic picture is that through Judah, the lineage of David will come, King David,
And then the king of kings, the great king, Jesus Christ.
Everything he's prophesying, Jesus would become, if you look at verse eight, nine, and 10, your hands shall be on the neck of your enemy.
Judah is a lion's wealth until Shiloh comes.
So the lion of Judah comes in the victory and he roars at death and he roars at sin that overcomes and he roars in this power.
And then what does Shiloh mean?
It means peace.
Only the one.
has that ability to be a lion who can bring peace as he roars at his enemies that I will not back down and isn't a beautiful place.
Are Jesus never back down?
He never back down.
He is a man's man and I always make that statement.
Hollywood can't make movies because they can never make great Jesus movies because there's never a man man enough to play Jesus on the face of this
Planet and no offense to those that are trying I don't mean that in any way but there's no man like Jesus and Here we see a fulfillment the Christmas cards are coming Isaiah 9 6 and 7 and speaks of the Prince of peace But you want to hear something that's amazing if you look at verse 10.
It says the scepter shall not depart the scepter meant Family lineage
The scepter was a staff.
Every family had like a banner.
They had a scepter.
They had a family emblem that represented their family.
In this case, for Judah, it was the lion.
And you can read through and see the other 12.
It's an interesting study as you go through those type of things.
But the scepter meant lineage.
And it says, the scepter shall not depart from Judah.
And here we're having a prophetic picture of the Messiah who would come through the line.
This is the beginning of, through the lineage of Judah will come the Messiah.
You will know who your Messiah is because He will come through King David.
all these things going all the way back here.
We need these things because of it said, if this was applied into Ruben, then the whole Bible would be wrong.
But here we can follow the life of Jesus, born in Bethlehem, the city of David, Christmas coming into all these type of things.
And we look at this, but you know what this, the scepter shall not depart means until Shiloh, till the prince comes.
Isaiah six, we're reading the Prince of Peace, here we go.
And all they believed, Messiah will come before we lose, ever lose, whose lineage it will come through.
In 70 AD, historical writings, Titus, 10th Roman Legion came in, utterly destroyed, burned Jerusalem to the ground.
In the burning,
were all the records of lineages.
You can go to Israel today, you can go around the world today.
There is no place that you can find the lineage of the Jewish people.
I'm from this family, I'm from this family.
Oh, there's traditions and people say, I'm from this lineage of the 12 tribes, but no one can prove it.
There's absolutely no
writings that can prove our family.
We were in New York last year.
We went to Ellis Island, right?
It was Ellis Island.
We went, we did the computer thing, and you see when your family came over and where they came over from, and you can find your lineages.
And at the best, 1800s, that's what we would find.
At best, that's the best we found with my family, Renee's family.
And that's probably at best you'll find with the Jewish people.
And what we have here is just one of the greatest prophecies in the Scriptures that if the people would have been paying attention, especially the rabbis, they would have came to this place, 70 AD, we can no longer trace our lineages.
We know that the Messiah must come through the line, the lineage of David.
Therefore, our Messiah
had to come before the destruction.
And they could easily go back and go, well, then who could it possibly be?
It would have to have been somebody through the lineage of David before 70 AD.
And here we sit and we know it's Jesus Christ.
And then it gets added to, and this is an amazing passage for us prophetically as we read the scriptures,
Verse 10 says, nor a law giver from between his feet until Shiloh comes, till prince peace comes.
And what are we reading?
It unfolds for us in John chapter 18, verse 31, then Pilate said to them, you take him and judge him according to your law.
Therefore the Jew said to him, Pilate, it is not law for for us to put anyone to death.
the Jewish people under the Roman rule lost the right to capital punishment.
They lost the right according to the Talmud, their Jewish writings.
They had lost that right around 18 B.C.
when Rome came in and Rome knew for you to be able to enact
capital punishment, the death penalty, that makes you a sovereign nation.
We, therefore, are going to remove that, so you do not have the ability to take life, and therefore, we're diminishing the sovereignty of the nation of Israel.
And that was like 18 years prior.
No more death penalty.
So they want to kill Jesus.
They had to come to Pilate and say, give us permission to kill.
Him.
Do this math.
Just do this math.
Luke 24, Luke 2, 41 through 50, you can read that on your own.
It's the story of them coming to the temple at the age of 12.
At the age of 12 is when you would become the person
and you would go to the temple you know we know today the bar mitzvah and these type of things take eighteen plus twelve that's thirty years that's thirty years jesus began his public ministry at the age of thirty and this these are amazing as you read through these type of things the jewish writings would say somewhere around eighteen years after such and such as they do their dating we lost a right to capital punishment
amazingly as we read that, a 12 year old boy is going into the temple and teaching and being recognized for his
word and his knowledge and then when his parents would find him.
So when they saw him verse 48, they were amazed and his mother said to him, son, why have you done this to us?
Look, your father and I have sought you anxiously.
And he said to them, why did you seek me?
Did you not know I must be about my father's business?
But they did not understand the statement that he spoke.
They said some of the historical writings
said that when the Romans came and made this announcement around 18-ish AD into that, that no more capital punishment, the rabbis and the church, mature church leaders went into the streets and were ripping their clothes in anguish.
And you know, the whole dust thing and all those type of things, because they said the Messiah has not come.
because they knew that if they ever lost the right to capital punishment, that they would then, that the Messiah would have had to come because it says, and the wall giver shall not depart.
And they ripped their clothes and then once again, they had no idea that Jesus was walking in Jerusalem, walking in Israel.
Hey, this Christmas.
For anyone here today, anyone listening online,
I hope the Messiah doesn't walk through your church and through your home and through your city, and you don't even know that that's Him.
He's walking among you and He's extending Himself.
He's making the offer for you to come.
And so often, how easy, and I'll say it even for myself, how easy it is to miss the Messiah walking amongst us.
What beautiful pictures that we see through that, and we could make a whole sermon about this.
But next, we move on to verse 13, and it speaks of zebulin.
Zebulun, you shall dwell by the haven of the sea.
He shall become a haven for ships, and his borders shall adjoin Sidon.
Interestingly, as we look at that, you might not be able to see that well, but here's the land inheritance as it was broken up.
You definitely can't see it, but this is the sea.
That's the Sea of Galilee, and this is Zebulun.
And what we're reading here is, and historically that we were reading, they were tremendously financially prosperous for the sea traffic that went back and forth between the Sea of Galilee and this Mediterranean Sea.
picture perfect again.
It became a trade route.
Verse 14 and 15, as we look at Issachar, Issachar is a strong donkey laying down between two burdens and he saw the rest, the rest was good and that the land was pleasant.
He bowed his shoulder to bare bird and it became a band of slaves.
And so he'll, this speaks of the rest and the pleasantness.
And as we look at Issachar and where they ended up, they ended up in this place called the Valley of Megiddo.
It was the bread
basket of Israel still is today.
And there's a picture of the very valley of Megito.
Some of you have been with us when we went to Israel.
Remember this and just look at the richness of it.
Interestingly, this is where the final battle of the world will end according to the Book of Revelation.
It's interesting because it's the landmass between Asia and Europe, and they'll meet in this perfect place for this battle.
I can't remember who it was.
Was it Napoleon?
He dreamt this would be the place that he would get the fight.
He said it's the perfect place for war and surely it will be there as we look at the end times.
Then we move on to verse 16 and 17 as we look at Dan.
Dan shall judge his people as one of the tribes of Israel.
Here he is.
speaking prophetically.
Dan shall be a serpent by the way, a viper by the path that bites the horses' heels so that its riders shall fall backward.
The first great judge that's known to come through the tribe of Dan is Samson, so we know that, but it says it will be a serpent by the way of viper by the path, and Dan will be the one who introduces idolatry into
Israel and it will be the price that they will pay for that as we look at that in Judges 18 then the children of Dan set
for themselves, the carved image.
And Jonathan, the son of Gersham, the son of Manassas, and the sons were priests to the tribe of Dan until the day of captivity all the way to the north.
They set up their own priesthood.
They introduced this idol worship, and they'll be one of the first to fall whenever the Assyrians come.
And you know, it's interesting to me as you look at this, and you see in Revelation 7 that Dan is left out of the lineage.
there in the book of Revelation.
Could it be because of their adultery or whatnot?
But here's what, once again, in Ezekiel, the last ten chapters of Ezekiel, Ezekiel 48 specifically.
Now these are the names of the tribes from the northern border along the road to Heathan and the entrance of Hameth.
to Hazar, Anah, the border of Damascus.
We know where that's Syria.
Northward in the direction of Hammit, there shall be one section for Dan from its east to its west side by the border, Dan from the east side to the west, one section for Asher.
And it's amazing.
The last 10 chapters of the book of Ezekiel speak of the millennial kingdom when God sets his kingdom up here on earth.
And the beautiful point that we see here is
that God brings Dan back in to the lineage, back into the land, gives them a piece of the land.
And what is it once again is the continual grace of God.
All these things that we're reading, all their failings, and yet if we look and spend time on each and every one of them, we just find this continual grace of God coming back in.
I just say before
I move on to that.
Well, it ties in perfectly with verse 18.
It says, Jacob, if you look at that, I've waited for your salvation, O Lord.
It says nothing to do with Dan.
It has nothing to do with Gad in the next verse.
It has nothing to do with Ruben, Simeon, Levi.
None of these that we've read.
It's Jacob.
Just in the middle of speaking these things, just finding himself coming into the place of praise.
Oh, I've waited for your salvation, O Lord.
And what he's speaking, he's speaking to his sons,
but he's reflecting on his own life, all these things, all my failings, all my scheming.
That's what he's known for, the conniver, the schemer, and all these things.
And yet, Lord, you've been faithful.
You've been faithful to this whole thing.
You've never given up on me.
You've brought me into this wonderful place of salvation.
You could have should have threw me away all these years ago, all these
doubts that I have and all the things that I did that were just like my boys and the faults and the failings that I have here and yet in the middle we just breaks through and it's a word for us.
He's so gracious.
I waited for your salvation.
In Psalm 16, 10 and 11, for you will not leave my soul and shield.
That's a word for hell.
Nor will you allow your holy one to see corruption.
This is the prophetic picture of Jesus, but it's a word as well for application to us.
You will show me the path of life in your presence, this fullness of joy at your right hand are pleasures forevermore.
Jacob's saying, I'm in the presence.
I've waited for the Lord and He showed up and showed Himself to me and I can sit in the fullness of joy even in my days of dying, the last days of my life.
And we always just keep coming back to this for the last weeks that we've been studying the life of Jacob and Joseph as well.
Don't quit.
Anybody here and you're thinking of quitting?
I'm done.
I'm just done.
This is too hard.
Following Jesus is too hard.
This walk of faith is too hard.
It's just easier to, I'm not going to renounce my faith by any means.
I still believe, but I just can't live this and walk this out.
It's just too hard to do these type of things.
And all I can say is just come into his presence.
Don't try to wrestle it.
Don't try to fight it.
Don't try to say, I'll do these 10 things.
All you got to do is just come into his presence.
and you'll find the fullness of joy.
And he'll take you and he'll move you on from there.
Jacob, whatever his thing was, he still stayed in this presence of the Lord.
And God did what only God can do.
And he brought Jacob through all these things.
But now he has his family together.
He gets to speak a prophetic word.
And it's just a beautiful picture for all of us.
And I just can't say it enough.
Just don't quit.
No matter what.
I know it's hard.
Just don't quit.
Verse 19, as we look at Gad, a troop shall tramp upon him, but he shall triumph at last.
Well, they are known.
That's who they get known for as we look at them, especially first chronicles, five through eight.
They become warriors, and they become fighters.
We're gonna see that with Naphtali and Benjamin, just fierce warriors.
And so, not only
Is there a word for us through here?
Don't quit.
But Christian, listen, stay in the fight.
We need to fight for one another.
We need to stay in this fight.
We need to go fight for the kids at the school.
We need to go fight for our brothers and sisters in the Paul and around the world and in our homes and all these type of things.
And there's this place that God recognizes the warrior that's in us.
And then there's a place for us in 2 Timothy 3, 4, you therefore must endure hardship as a good soldier of Jesus Christ.
No one engaged in warfare and tangles himself with the affairs of this life that he may please him who
enlisted him as a soldier.
Israel knows one thing.
Still to this day, war.
They know nothing else but war.
They wouldn't know peace for extended period of time in their whole history.
And I think there's a correlation for us as Second Timothy gives us a call.
We're going to fight this to the end.
Big misconception to think that we should have a life of these
prosperity and that the devil's not going to come and go for a fight.
And we'll talk more about that in just one second as we look at Joseph.
But verse 20 says, Bread from Asher shall be rich and he shall yield royal dainties.
That's pretty interesting as we see the
the Asher plugged between here and then the next one, Naphtali, as we look at Gad and Naphtali.
And here you have these gifts, you know, hey, you got these guys that fight, but here's Asher.
They come and they bring this refreshment, these royal dainties and bread because, you know, when we go to war, somebody needs to stay behind and provide for the soldiers.
And we have military people here today.
I see.
God bless you.
Thank you for your service.
May you know we recognize the risk that you take.
I don't care how great the weaponry you may have.
There is still always an inert risk.
There's always the battle that surrounds.
And we have people that go to war, but then we have people who stay behind and
Prayer, provide, supply.
And that's what we see here with our military.
Those who just go to the front line, they go behind the front line, they go deep into enemy territory.
But someone was behind them all the while preparing.
Here's your weapon, here's your transportation.
Here is the battle plan.
Here's the intel.
Here's the supply and all these types so you can go in and you can come home.
And everything that we see there in today's military war is the same in our spiritual war.
Anyone who's going to go anywhere, and I thank you, I knew I could not go into Nepal and come out in Nepal without the prayer coverage that I had.
And we won't go into the public school and come out of this public school without the prayer coverage.
Any of you who are involved in these type of ministries, and even the ministries here in the church that we know, there's those behind who are providing, in the case of Asher, big goods and dainties to supply the warriors.
And because verse 21 says,
Speaking of Naphtali is a dear let loose.
He uses beautiful words.
And once again in Judges, we see them.
Judges chapter four, the military proudness that they had.
Well, now we move on to verse 22 as we speak of Joseph.
And what a picture there as Joseph is a fruitful borough.
a fruitful borough by a well.
His branches run over the wall.
And this is an amazing, again, you know, it's 400 years.
It's 400 years of slavery before we see all this coming to pass with Joseph and these type of things.
And great leaders are going to come out of the line of Joseph.
Did I give the cross-reference?
Yes.
Yeah.
Hebrews 11, Gideon, Barack, Samson, Jeptha, David, Samuel, speaking of the Hall of Faith, the leaders that came out from Joseph were Gideon, Jeptha, Joshua, Deborah, and Samuel.
That's amazing.
just through this one Son, but not till 400 years of slavery was over.
Not till then 400 years of judges would come and they'd go in and the life of these judges, and he can prophesy these things, because you know why?
And it's a word same for us, because God's going to see it through.
God's going to see you through.
God's going to bring this victory for us.
And it brings me to just the thought and encouragement for us as we look at these things of Joseph being a fruitful burrow.
A fruitful burrow by a well, verse 22.
His branches run over the wall.
It makes me think of Psalm 1.
Just a word for us, blessed is the man who walks not in the council of the godly nor stands in the path of sinners nor sits in the seat of the scornful, but as delight is in the law of the Lord and in his law he meditates day and night he shall be like a tree.
planted by the rivers of water that brings forth its fruit in its season, whose leaf also shall not wither, and whatever he does, he shall prosper.
You know the great well that we have, it's none other than Jesus, John 4, as we speak of that.
If you knew the gift of God and who it was, this says, give me drink, you would have asked, and he would have given you living water.
And the woman said, sir, I have nothing to draw from the well as deep.
Where do I get this living water?
Are you greater than our father, Jacob, who gave us this well and drank from himself as well as sons and his livestock?
And Jesus answered and said to her, whoever drinks of this water she'll thirst again.
Whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst.
But the water that I shall give him will become in him a fountain of water, springing up into everlasting life.
And all the power and the beauty that we get, we just need to rest in the Lord.
Draw from the well, the living water and say, Lord, I'm just gonna sit in your presence.
I don't need to work these things up.
All I gotta do is just hang with these things, who you are and tap from the well that you provide.
And I'll never thirst again.
like this Joseph, but here's the amazing thing is we look at that and how beautiful that sounds, but notice in verse 23 and 24, the archers have bitterly grieved him, shot at him and hated him, but his bow remained in strength, and the arms of his hands were made strong by the hands of the mighty God of Jacob.
From there is the shepherd, the stone of Israel.
And here it speaks of the arrows that would pierce Joseph, the tax that would come as we read the life of Joseph, these 13 years in prison, in slavery, and all the attacks that came from his brothers from these type of things and listen.
The minute you start being fruitful for Jesus Christ in anything,
you can be sure the devil's coming with the attack.
And sometimes we sit and we just don't understand and we go, I don't know why I'm going through these type of things.
And yet we just have to recognize always as the war that we're in, the soldiers that we are and this battle that we fight and these type of things, the fiery darts that come from the devil because he has one thing, if you're going to step out and be fruitful and try to do anything in my name, the devil,
is coming and he wants to still kill and destroy that.
I love this picture of the archer and what it's saying is Joseph, he would draw his bow for the battle and his hands were starting to get weak.
And anybody that shoots bow
You know, if you go to the target or if you're out in the woods, when you draw your bow, regardless of the type of bow that you get, there's a limitation that you have.
You have only a certain amount of time to take your shot because the longer you hold that at that pressure, and it's like 70 pounds of pressure,
Your arms start to weak, and you start to literally, the longer you hold it, and the more muscle tension that you got, the more you're gonna start to shake, and the less likely you're gonna hit the target, and it's a pull that you got, and you know, I only got maybe 30 seconds to take this shot, so you can't draw your bow early, and wait, you have to draw your bow timely, and your arms start to shake, and those type of things, and what the Lord is speaking here, and this is just a beautiful picture for everyone here today.
God came around and he strengthened and steady Joseph's arm.
He helped hold that string.
He helped hold that bow.
And I can remember it was 20-some years ago at least.
I remember a season and a time in my life and I go, Lord, I just don't know if I can hold this anymore.
Everything that's coming against me, I think I'm supposed to be doing this.
I think this is what you call, I know you called me to do this.
I know this is what you, but I think my arms are ready to fail.
And it was a picture, and it was that very thing where, and the Lord just gave me a word.
It wasn't this word, it's through another passage in my morning devotion that God just gave me this picture of, I'm gonna steady your arms.
And it gave me literally this word, and it was him holding
his my arms with his arm and holding the bow.
And he says, you can just hang on a little longer because I got your arms.
And this is what he's speaking of Joseph and it's a beautiful thing.
And then once again, Jacob's making this point to the boys as we read this, it's never too late boys.
What God's done in Joseph, he can do in you verse 25 and 26 as we wrap.
But the God of your fathers who will help you
He's going into a new word by the Almighty who will bless you with the heaven above, blessing the deep that lies beneath.
Blessings of the breast and of the womb, the blessing of your Father.
have excelled the blessing of my ancestors upon the utmost bond of everlasting heals.
They shall be on the head of Joseph and on the crown and head of him who separates from his brother."
Basically, he's just saying, all the blessings that Joseph go on to Ephraim and Manasseh, his sons.
And we studied that last week.
Well, here we come.
The last one is Benjamin, verse 27.
And it's going to speak of Benjamin and his warrior proudness.
as a ravenous wolf in the morning he shall devour the prey and at night he shall divide the spoil and we have various passages here for you note takers it's all in there speaking of the great warrior that Benjamin would become they could shoot they were known they could shoot a bow with left hand or right hand and just the archer and the slings that they were and verse 28 through
33, as we close just so much in all these passages.
All these are the 12 tribes of Israel.
And this is what their father spoke to them, and he blessed them.
He blessed each one according to his own blessing.
So even with the harsh words, he was still giving blessings to all of them.
And verse 29, then he charged them and said to them,
I am to be gathered to my people, bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite, in the cave that is in the field of MacPella, which is born before mammary in the land of Canaan.
Today Israel promised land that was given to him even though he's in Egypt.
When Abraham
which Abraham bought with the field of Ephron the Hittite as a possession for the burial place.
There they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife and they buried Isaac and Rebecca and his wife and there I buried Leah.
The field and the cave that is there were purchased from the sons of Heth and when Jacob had finished commanding his sons, he drew his feet up into the bed, breathed his last and was gathered to his people.
I just close with such a beautiful passage speaking.
There was some application for every one of these sons for us personally, but I love the closing place that we have here with him.
He's second, his son, second in the land.
And I love it that Jacob could have said, hey, you know when I die, build me a monument here in Egypt.
Let everyone remember
that I was Joseph's dad.
Let the land remember me and let people pass by and go, that was the man of the son, the father of the great man, Joseph.
Egypt has always been a picture of the world as we read through these scriptures and we look at these type of things.
And I just love the picture that we see of Jacob and we'll see it when we close this book out next week with Joseph.
Don't bury me in this world.
Ain't nothing in this world that's worth me tagging my life and my identity to.
I'm just passing through Abraham, Isaac, Jacob.
We were all just so journers looking for what is our final destination.
And that's our heavenly shore.
And here, Lord, we come in and may you just speak to our heart as we look at these things and consider these things.
Father, this world ain't it.
And Lord, we're thankful for the country we live.
We're thankful for thanksgiving to celebrate the goodness and the prosperity that we have.
But we are just so journers passing through.
We have a mission and it is not this world.
It is to make heaven crowded and to tell the world there's a king of kings and the Lord of lords and there's a place that is beyond anything this world and will last and be there forever in eternity with him.
And Lord, I thank you that you have prepared the way.
And Lord, all these promises that we read through this scripture and all these promises that we read in the New Testament, all these promises of the king that would come
for this Christmas season that we read 2000 years ago, the Babe of Bethlehem, all these things we know and can trust are true because of this great picture Israel still stands 4000 years later.
And of all your promises that them are true, you're very word to us as you would speak to us.
through our brother Paul and Corinthians, all the promises of God are yes in amen in Christ Jesus.
And Lord, he who began a good work would be faithful to complete it.
And Lord, may I pray for anyone whose hands are growing weary holding the bow.
Not sure if they could make it one more day, week, month or year.
Lord, would you speak to their heart that you come alongside them and you steady them?
And Lord, that you will be faithful to complete what you started in us.
and we praise you because we can trust you, and we rest in you.
Faith, for all I trust Him, F-A-I-T-H, we just trust you Lord.
Would you meet the needs of everyone here, whatever their need may be?
Thank you for a word that's outside this time domain that we can rest in it, and we pray this in your name.
Let's give him worship for he's worthy, and then God bless you.
We'll start here next week.